## Airport Radio

This is my second project for the Lede Program 2025. I was asked to find a dataset to work with and create a webpage in HTML and publish it to Github.

I wanted to create something fun, working with some kind of API to get familiar with using them and live flight data. I came up with the idea of matching flight data with music top hits for their destination countries because I love planes and music.

It was hard to get free and good flight data. I tried using free plans on different platforms like [OpenSky Network](https://openskynetwork.github.io/opensky-api/) but ended up paying a small amount for the [FlightRadar24 API](https://fr24api.flightradar24.com/) as it was the only option that had everything I was looking for, except for the departure time. So I had to create a bounding box for each airport and sort the flights by altitude. I also filtered out national flights because it would have been boring to see the same song over and over again. I was ready to match the flights to the music with the Spotify API, or so I thought. I realized it didn't have data per country. I looked for workarounds because I saw there were official Top50 Hits for over 70 countries on Spotify but they don't want you to scrape their pages. I turned to Kaggle, where some guy made an API with [daily updated Top50 songs for 73 countries.](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/asaniczka/top-spotify-songs-in-73-countries-daily-updated/data) Great. I wrote the code, everything worked. As I was finishing up a few days later I became aware of the fact that it wasn't being updated anymore. I had to find another way. After googling for a bit, I came across Spotify data for countries on [Kworb](https://kworb.net/spotify/). I decided to scrape this website which worked perfectly.

I then matched the flights to the destination countries' top hits but had no idea how to display the results on a webpage. I read quite a bit and learned I could use Flask. It worked pretty quickly and I was ready to get moving to my index.html. I had a really hard time figuring out why different things were not working. After days of troubleshooting I finally achieved what I wanted to: An autocompleting search bar with every airport in the world with an IATA code, an embedded Spotify player and an embedded flight map. For the latter I couldn't use any of the big platforms as they don't allow embeds. I found [ADS-B Exchange](https://globe.adsbexchange.com/), a great site. For the embed URL I just needed to adapt my code to the tailnumber instead of the callsign because the callsign wasn't supported.

While working on this project I learned how to use APIs and that you can directly filter their data while calling an endpoint before even importing data to your notebook. I for the first time "in the wild" used BeautifulSoup to scrape the music data. I discovered that there are hundreds of useful Python libraries, like the list of all the airports or a dataset that turns two-letter country abbreviations in the whole country name which made my life a lot easier. I learned about Flask, about building a website that communicates with your backend with a little bit of Javascript. I also know now that Python and Javascript don't always like eachother. Finally I discovered how you deploy Flask with [Render](https://render.com/).

It would have been nice to integrate more infos about flights, like popular foods in each country or arriving flights instead of departing ones, so a user could choose on the frontend. But I didn't have enough time and my API calls are also limited. Maybe in the future.

Link to the story: [Airport Radio](https://airport-radio.onrender.com/)
